[Music]
Want to buy a $1 million home, but you
only make $30,000 a year? No problem.
Canada's housing market is right for
you. All you need is a down payment of
1.5% to be living large in Canada. Hurry
before prices rise even further. Join
the club. You came here for the truth.
So, let me unveil that for you. Today,
we are going to talk about Canada's
housing bubble. I want to focus on one
company in particular. It's been in the
news. That's right. It's Home Capital
Group, also known as Home Trust, its
subsidiary. And what they're talking
about here in this article out of
Business Insider is something very
particular making reference back to the
financial crisis before that. Obviously
the housing bubble in the US saying that
there were liar loans everywhere where
we had the ninja loans, no income, job
or assets. And this is the type of thing
that really was exacerbated by low
interest rates and every reason for
people to invest in real estate. It was
essentially free money. And they're
saying Canada is different. Regulators
are on top of it. There are strict down
payment requirements. Mortgages are full
recourse. So strung out, borrowers
couldn't just mail in their keys and
walk away as they did in the
US. Absolutely. This is true. But
Wednesday after hours, Home Capital
Group, Canada's
largest non-bank mortgage lender threw a
monkey wrench into this theory through
its subsidiary, Home Trust. The company
focuses on alternative mortgages,
high-profit mortgages to risky borrowers
with dented
credit or unreliable incomes who don't
qualify for mortgage insurance and
turned down by the banks. They include
everyone's favorite
subprime borrowers. So it disclosed upon
urging of the Ontario Securities
Commission the results of an
investigation that have been going on
secretly since
September falsification of income
information also known as just cut off
at the bottom liar loans. This is a
repeat of what we saw and it is coming
to the surface right now. We have the
evidence and this isn't a small case.
This is taking off. This is huge. This
is bombshell. And the media covers it in
general. The media covers it as if it is
only this small little portion. But I
assure you this is big. And Canada's
entire economy right now. The entire
thing is resting upon a crutch. also
known as the housing market. There is
nothing left. Oil is down in price. You
have seen what's going on with lumber
potentially uh encountering a problem
right here. Of course, that's very new.
And the dollar, the Canadian dollar down
significantly. What is it then that is
looking good for the future? Now you're
thinking, how bad can it be? Many people
in Canada say you can't have a housing
bubble like what happened in the
States because of these strict
regulations in place. Well, I would beg
to differ. Anybody can get a loan,
anybody with 5% down. So you pay 5%, you
just have to pay in insurance
essentially an extra fee to allow them
to give less than that 20 25% that you
would traditionally need to pay. Just
pay a little
bit extra money and no problem. You're
allowed to get it. Insurance money,
whatever that
means.
Well, if you don't even have
5%, there's no problem.
Canada Mortgage and Financial Group has
a new product that allows you to borrow
your down payment from any source. The
only amount you need to show your
ownership being
1.5% of the purchase price, 1.5%. You
need to have essentially nothing and you
can buy that up. That's how people are
able to afford million-dollar homes
being nothing in the market in some
cities across
Canada, namely Toronto, Vancouver, which
have the majority of the
population of Canada, a big portion
anyway. And you look at it, 1.5% that's
nothing. It's no different than what
happened in the crisis in the US. I'm
sure that as time goes on, we are going
to find more and more information which
shows the
similarities. There's more in here. I'd
like to move on, but you see where I'm
going with
that. Moving on to the next article.
Home Capital Group highinterest savings
account balance. Think about this. The
deposits at Home Capital Group have been
declining
dramatically in a short period of time.
This is starting in late March. And now
you're looking at it a very short period
of time later, a couple months, not
even, where you'll see it declining this
dramatic. And that is a bank run.
However you want to look at it, call it
whatever word or term, it doesn't matter
to me. It's a bank run. The deposits are
fleeing. Money is leaving the company.
If it's a stock and people start selling
the stock or if it's a traditional bank
and people take out their
deposits, anything, however you want to
look at it. To me, people are leaving
the company and if you're on board, you
better bail
out. No pun
intended. There was no end in sight to
the crisis at Subprime Lender Home
Capital. This week, the banks warning
the run on deposit cast doubt on the
ability to continue operating. Home
capital has seen a
94% of the deposits in its savings
accounts
disappear.
94%. And I have heard many people tell
me that everything is just fine. Well,
I've heard that all before. So, thank
you for your opinion. Much appreciated.
The situation is bringing
unwanted negative attention to Canada's
financial system from abroad. Abroad
bets against the looney. We have seen
that dramatic actually and against the
Canadian banks are at elevated levels.
Moody's downgraded Canadians banks as
they should be warning that consumer
debt levels are too high. That's
something that I have been warning about
for a long time in fact and
that's very much connected with what's
happening with the housing
crisis. As you can see, people just take
on more and more and more and more debt
and then they use their homes as bank
accounts buying luxury cars. You have no
idea if you don't live in the city
Toronto how many luxury cars are on the
streets. It seems like a 50/50 chance on
many areas you drive
through that you will see a luxury car
versus your standard
vehicle. It is everywhere and the people
have taken on more debt in order to get
that. And look, if the mortgages and the
loans are being handed out at next to
nothing, people are figuring why not?
That's the trouble that we are running
into. Look, even the Bank of
Canada, the central bank, I mean, you
know there's a problem when the central
bank admits there's a problem. Assessing
vulnerabilities in the Canadian
financial system. Ongoing monitoring of
financial system is important. They go
on the regularly evaluating
vulnerabilities in the Canadian
financial system such as the degree of
leverage, funding and liquidity issues,
the risking uh the price of pricing of
risk and then it goes on
essentially assessing these
vulnerabilities and then they will get
into that in the report saying that
Canadians are too far stretched, there's
too much debt, the interest rates are
too low at this point and everything's
out of whack. They mention
everything. They talk about these things
and then of course the solution is never
right. They always do what they know
they
shouldn't. So you on one hand you get
these reports that come out that
highlight all the big problems that I
talk about and then they say, "Well, you
know what? we're going to print some
more money or we're going to bring the
interest rates down or we're going to
have a stimulus type package or we're
going to do things that just make it
worse. Of course, there's reasons for
this, political reasons and everything
else. We know the
deal. And last but not least, Home
Capital Group said its recent decision
to suspend its relationship with dozens
of brokers happened after an external
source tipped the company off. that
brokers were falsifying borrower
incomes. Wow, what a surprise. Home
Capital One of Canada's largest
alternative mortgage lenders said
approximately
45 individual thirdparty brokers are no
longer dealing with the company
following an internal investigation.
60% of the mortgages created using false
documents were a part of its accelerator
line of insurance mortgages products.
Anyway, it doesn't matter. The point is
that they were liar loans. These
are the worst of the worst. Then you
have the fact that you can get a
mortgage for
1.5% down. You have mortgages at
extremely low levels at this time. You
have Canadians in the maximum amount of
debt at this time. the highest levels of
debt ever. It all spells doom. And what
should you do? You should not be playing
in the same game. Sure, if you want to
get into these markets, whatever market
that is, you better be ready in case
things turn
south. You better be ready. At this
time, we have record levels. Is there
ever a time to buy something when it's
at a record level? Maybe. Maybe it
continues to go up, but you have to
express extreme caution. That goes for
any asset. I don't care which one. You
can still have your money in it. But you
have to be ready. And a lot of people,
they're not ready. Particularly those
Canadians right now who have put
everything they have into their home.
They've taken out the equity to buy
their fancy Teslas and everything else
that are so common on the road these
days. And you have to figure what's
going to be there to backs stop you. Are
you going to wait for
the Bank of Canada to bail you out too?
Well, don't worry because the Bank of
Canada doesn't bail out any banks or any
institutions. The Federal Reserve
does. Okay. Anyway, enough with the
segue. That's it for this video. If you
found it informative, please give me a
thumbs up. When you give me a thumbs up,
it pushes these videos higher up in the
YouTube search rankings. So, more than
ever, I do appreciate that. As you have
heard
before, YouTube ain't what it used to
be. That's for sure. We are seeing the
censorship going on. We are seeing
individuals who are creating content on
this
platform trying to be silenced and it
goes in many ways but I'm still here. A
lot of people have uh asked me to go on
to Steemit. I do have a Steemit account.
I have made zero dollars on Steemit. So
uh I'm not exactly sure how that all
works but uh definitely not
a profitable profitable place to be.
Although it is good
to get into different avenues and try to
do that. Uh I'm not really sure how that
Steemit business works. I I basically
posted a video up on there and it has
generated no revenue. So I don't know
where the revenue comes from exactly.
But uh regardless, if you found the
video informative, then I know you'll
find my books, The Money GPS and my new
release, Global Economic Collapse, even
more informative. If you want to look
through the books, they're at Amazon.
Also, my audio book for the global
economic collapse is available. That's
on my website and uh my the website is
the
moneygps.com. You can check out the
audio book there. If you want to flip
through the books at Amazon, they have
that ability. Take care.